Marietta Yuby.
From the time I met her
in the seventh grade...
that was my sweetheart.
She didn't
make it easy though.
Took me all the way till the eighth grade
to catch up with her.
[ Chuckles ]
She's beautiful.
Yeah.
She passed away
shortly after we were married.
I'm really sorry.
The greatest gift
she gave me...
was the will to move on...
to overcome.
You know. I may have
met someone myself.
Then cherish her.
And become
the man she deserves.
Have a seat.
Now. as I said...
I had a feeling
you were gonna stop by.
That university you attended-
What was it rated? Number three?
Number-three party school
in the country.
Do- Do you truly
know how to learn?
Jason. any process
worth going through...
will get tougher
before it gets easier.
That's what makes
learning a gift...
even if pain
is your teacher.
No. There's no way.
Anywhere but there.
I know what he's trying to do.
and it's not gonna work.
He can take his millions
to his grave. I don't care.
What he's trying to do is for your benefit.
not your destruction.
You know. Hamilton.
you sound just like him.
But guess what.
You're not him.
I don't know. son.
I do have one of his kidneys.
[ Emily ]
He's been out there for hours.
[ Alexia ]
Yep. He's got some big decisions to make.
Do you think he'll
come in or go home?
He doesn't have a home.
[ Emily ]
You're right. She hates you.
- I know.
- Then why are you here?
I have to leave the country
for a while.
I'm reluctant to go because
of what I'm leaving behind.
What are you leaving behind?
Then you have to go.
Now get out of here.
You screwed up big time.
you know!
I had to eat a rubber hospital
turkey for Thanksgiving!
You better be back
by Christmas!
[ Children Laughing ]
[ Bleating ]
[ Scoffs ]
Even down here. you put your name on everything.
Welcome! Oh. welcome!
Jason Stevens.
Oh! Oh!
So good to meet you.
- I'm Bella.
- Hi.
May I be the first to show you
inside the library your grandfather built?
- Yeah. sure.
- Oh. good. good.
Where are all the books?
Oh. [ Chuckles ]
You joke.
W-With the people.
Is it not like that in the great libraries
de Los Estados Unidos?
Villagers wait for books.
You bring them new books.
They are waiting for you
to pick up old books.
Exchange. Library. ¿S¡?
[ Exhales ]
So basically.
I'm in a third world country...
at a backwards library
with no books.
And the books that are here.
I can't even read.
[ Book Closes ]
Great.
Mmm.
This I found
when I was cleaning his desk...
once I heard
of Red's passing.
I thought maybe you
would like to keep.
When you sent this to him...
he proudly showed it
to all of us.
Then the tragedy.
It broke his heart.
[ Young  Jason's Voice ]
Dear Grandpa...
How's Ecuador?
I miss you and Dad so much.
You know. my birthday's
coming up. and I was thinking...
instead of giving me gifts
this year...
could you take me
on one of your trips?
I promise I won't
cause any trouble.
I just want to see you
and Dad again soon.
Write back. please.
Love. Jason.
[ Thunder Rumbling ]
- [ Chattering In Spanish ]
- Hola.
[ Children Laughing ]
Un momento. por favor.
You look
just like your father.
I was here
the night he died.
It happened up on that mountain.
didn't it?
- Take me there.
- You cannot go.
It is now the province
of the drug lords.
You don't understand.
I'll pay you.
Well. someday.
I understand perfectly.
But. señor. I only have one life.
You're just bargaining now.
aren't you?
Señor Stevens.
you do not want to pay the price it would take.
No one
who goes there returns.
- [ Children Shouting ]
- [ Footsteps Approaching ]
[ Speaking Spanish ]
Our guest of honor.
Mr. Jason Stevens.
Oh.
Gracias.
[ Chuckles ]
I'm afraid to ask.
Oh. you will love it.
It's so rare we catch one.
- The chief is going to talk.
- Oh.
He says we are here
to celebrate you...
and those who keep
theJay Stevens Library alive.
- [ All Cheering ]
- Oh. no. no. no. no. no. no. no.
No. No. No. no. no.
He must be mistaken.
My grandfather was very generous.
Everything's named after him.
No. it is theJay Stevens
Memorial Library.
[ Speaking Spanish ]
[ Laughs.
Speaking Spanish ]
[ Crowd Cheering. Applauding ]
To my father.
-Salud.
- [ Speaking Spanish ]
- Have some more.
- Salud.
Salud.
[ Laughing ]
[ Laughing Continues ]
[ Goat Bleating ]
[ Thunder Rumbling ]
You cannot hope
to find it without me.
How'd you know I'd go?
You are a Stevens.
are you not?
I thought you said
you couldn't take me.
My purpose in coming to you
was a promise I made to Señor Red-
that you could
learn the truth.
He had one desire
and one desire alone-
to ask your forgiveness.
[ Man ]
He said one day you would come.
Only then you could
learn the truth.
Stop! Stop the jeep.
[ Thunder Rumbling ]
[ Sniffling ]
[ Sniffles ]
He had learned of a village
in the next valley...
that had a plague and needed
medical supplies.
But he never understood
why Red forbid him to go.
There was no plague.
There was no village.
What?
Red wanted to introduce
your father to the oil business.
But your father...
was restless and bored.
- No. No.
- He snuck away. He ran away...
- and took a plane he had no business taking.
- No.
This is what Red wanted
to protect you from. Till now.
There can be no blame
for what happened here.
The penalty for
your father's impulsiveness...
unfortunately. was a life-
- [ Thunder Rumbling ]
- his.
- ¿Americano?
- [ Speaking Spanish ]
- [ Thunderclap ]
- [ Men Shout In Spanish ]
Ow.
[ Gasping ]
[ Man Shouting In Spanish ]
[ Men Laughing ]
[ Laughing Continues ]
[ Coughing. Yetching ]
[ Paper Rustling ]
[ Reading In Spanish ]
[ Man ]
''It was the best of times. it was the worst of times...
''it was the age of wisdom...
it was the age
of foolishness. ''
Can't you find him?
We think that
he went searching for the crash site...
which is in
lawless territory.
- I'm sorry. Crash site?
- Where his father died.
Well. I mean. is-
is he in any danger?
I'm so sorry.
[ Reading In Spanish ]
[ Man ]
''Neither love. nor hate thy life.'
''but what thou livest.
live well...
however long or short
may the heavens permit. ''
Tell me about my father.
In many ways. he was
very similar to you-
restless. rebellious.
angry.
I think Red
saw something in him...
that he didn't see
in his other sons-
a fire.
The same fire
he sees in you.
I still don't forgive you.
- [ Door Opens ]
- [ Men Shouting In Spanish ]
[ Shouting Continues ]
[ Men Laughing ]
- [ Blows Landing ]
- [ Man Groaning ]
[ Man Shouts In Spanish ]
Amigo? Amigo.
are you here?
- [ Man Shouts In Spanish ]
- [ Gasping ]
No. no. no! No! No. no!
Please. no! I can- I can pay you!
- I have money! Please!
- [ Shouts In Spanish ]
- Oh. God! God! Does anyone
understand what I'm saying?
- [ Gunshot ]
[ Gasping ]
[ Speaking Spanish ]
[ All Laugh ]
[ Sobbing ]
[ Laughter Continues ]
[ Groans ]
[ Men Chattering In Spanish ]
[ Speaking Spanish ]
[ Men Shouting In Spanish ]
[ Grunts ]
[ Man Mumbling In Spanish ]
- [ Man Grunts ]
- [ Body Thuds ]
''Mueren. '' ''Mueren. ''
Muerte.
Death.
[ Snoring ]
[ Panting ]
Hey. Hey.
Hey. Shh.
- [ Jason ] Can you walk?
- [ Fly Buzzing ]
Save yourself.
Not on your life.
Come on.
[ Grunting ]
[ Men Shouting In Distance ]
[ Gunfire In Distance ]
Come on.
[ Gunfire ]
Hey. Oh. Mmm.
What are you
doing here?
I was scared to death.
Where's Emily?
Um. she's resting.
She'll see you tomorrow.
You guys have
a good Christmas?
We didn't have one.
How could we?
You know what? We're gonna have
a fantastic one next year.
I promise.
We won't have a next year.
[ Red's Voice ] The events of that day
play in my mind over and over and over again.
I'm so sorry.
If your father hadn't died
while working for me-
Please give me
a chance to explain.
Ever since that day. my life
has been filled with grief.
It is apparent that you
will never forgive me.
I do not blame you for this.
It's also something
that I cannot do for myself.
I loved your father
so much.
Aparent should never have
a child precede them in death.
It is the most painful
experience imaginable.
Uh...
that's enough for today.
gentlemen.
Welcome back. stranger.
Hey.
Ta-da.
Here.
Wow.
An ''airport gift shop'' gift.
- How thoughtful.
- [ Chuckles ]
Does it come
with needles?
[ Chuckling ]
Uh-
Yeah. you can kiss me.
even though you're a guy.
I missed you too.
Whatever.
Let's cut to the chase.
You really blew it
with us this Christmas.
I was unavoidably detained.
Okay. yeah.
I want Christmas.
I want to ride a horse.
Oh. I got. like. a week or two
left with this other thing...
but. um. let me make a call
and we'll see-
Jason.
Now.
Okay.
- That works for me.
- Excuse me. sir. It's  Jason on line two.
Oh. uh.
will you all excuse me?
I have to take this call.
- [ Phone Beeps ]
- Go ahead. Jason.
[ Jason ] Mr. Hamilton. look.
One way or another. this is over.
Either I was in South America
way too long...
or I missed the deadline
or whatever...
but what I'm about to do
is way more important.
And I know you have no reason
whatsoever to trust me...
but I need to borrow
my grandfather's jet.
And I need it now.
I want to take Alexia and Emily to Gus's ranch
for a late Christmas.
Jason. do you know what you're doing?
Look. I have no control-
Uh. what. um. Mr. Hamilton
was saying was that. uh...
he'll be sending along
Red's next gift on your Conversay.
You have your bags
packed within the hour...
and. uh. he will
have the jet fueled...
- and ready to go.
- [ Jason ] Thank you.
This means so much to me.
And. Hamilton...
I promise I'm gonna take back all those
nasty thoughts about you being the Grinch.
Thanks again. Merry Christmas.
[ Exhales ]
[ Emily. Jason. Alexia
Singing Christmas Song ]
Hey. Gus!
What is this?
Snow in Texas?
Had it trucked in.
Ho. ho. ho!
- All right. Hector. hit it!
- [ Gasps ]
- [ Chuckling ]
- Merry Christmas.
- Gus. this is Emily.
- Hi. Emily. Welcome.
- Alexia.
- Hi.
- Alexia. how ya doin'?
- And there he is.
- Hey.
[ Chuckles ]
I'll get your bags.
[ Alexia ]
I see why you chose this place.
[ Jason ]
I wish I could take the credit.
Emily said her wish was to go
horseback riding with you.
What?
Emily-
[ Crying ]
What? What's wrong?
She's-
She's terrified of horses.
I'm the one who loves horses.
[ Alexia ]
Oh. Jason. it's so beautiful.
Thank you.
[ Gus ]
Well. this is what I was tellin' you about.
- Pretty. huh?
- [ Jason ] It's beautiful.
Hey. come here.
I wanna show you something.
Gonna be okay. sweetie?
Alexia...
- there's something I need to do.
- What?
For Emily.
And now for me.
- And Gus.
- [ Laughs ]
How about that?
[ Owl Hooting ]
[ Sighs ]
[ Beeps ]
When I achieved my dreams.
it was like going home...
to a place
I'd never been before.
You don't know that feeling.
do you?
The first few gifts
I've given you have been practical.
Show up. do this. do that.
And then the gifts started
needing you to provide input.
They needed intuition.
Still. your average person
is too weighted down.
Jason. you need to be free.
free to dream.
You need to come up
with a dream. then act on it.
Jason. this is the time
for you to dream.
[ Owl Hooting ]
[ Jason ]
You thinkin'about butterflies?
[ Emily ]
No. Jason. I'm looking at the stars.
You know.
I set this whole thing up...
because I thought you wanted
to go horseback riding...
not your mom.
Get real. Horses are
smelly and sweaty.
So. sweetie.
what's your dream?
If you could dream
of anything- anything-
what would your dream be?
My dream?
My dream was
a perfect day.
And I'm just
finishing it.
My dream was to be
with people I love...
who love each other.
that love me.
What about you. Jason?
What's your dream?
[ Sighs ]
I don't know.
For as long as I can remember.
all I wanted to do was have fun.
Now I don't have a clue.
It's okay.
Guys are clueless.
[ Laughs ]
Hey. you have to know this.
Even if you don't
have a dream of your own...
you gave me mine.
- That counts for something.
- Mmm.
Of course.
Look at her.
Isn't she beautiful?
[ Chattering ]
I mean. except for
her choice in lipstick.
[ Laughs ]
But you have to admit...
even if you got nothing
else out of the deal but her...
you'd still be a huge winner.
[ Laughing ]
Don't blow it. Knowing you.
you're likely to do it.
[ Sighs ]
Merry Christmas. Jason.
Merry Christmas.
Up until now.
I have only existed.
I've. um-
I've drifted through life
day to day...
thinking that
that was enough.
And honestly. I don't know
if I have my own dream.
But I do know I can help
others fulfill theirs. I know it.
Jason. will you excuse us
for a few minutes?
Hamilton & Partners.
[ Elevator Bell Dings ]
We've deliberated and evaluated
whether or not your answer...
conforms with the expressed
desires of Red Stevens...
and we find
that your answer does.
Therefore. we are releasing
an amount allocated for you at this time.
That is. uh...
$100 million to do with
whatever you please.
All of us here at the firm
want to congratulate you. Jason...
for sticking it out...
putting up with some
very harsh conditions...
and prevailing.
Congratulations. Jason.
So that's it?
[ Chuckles ]
Yes. I- I think so.
No. don't get me wrong.
It's not the amount.
It's. uh-
It's just-
I don't know.
I was...
expecting a different
feeling or...
something.
I think that's
because now you...
are a different person.
And. uh-
And. no...
we won't cash
that check for you.
[ All Laughing ]
Okay. so he is the best
architect in town. That's great.
Tell him I want a meeting with him
first thing Monday morning.
I want to tour that property
as soon as possible.
Oh. that's amazing. We'll have a meeting
at the bank in. let's say. what. a month?
- [ Man ] That would depend on how
many vehicles you were talking.
- [ Beeps ]
- I'm sorry. Can you hold on?
- Certainly.
- Yeah?
- [ Man #2 ]
Mr. Stevens. a-a young lady to see you.
- Great. Send her up.
- Okay.
- I'm sorry.
- [ Man #1] Will it be a large number of-
Yeah. there are gonna be
plenty of cars.
- Okay. we'll have to look into it and let you know.
- Okay. thank you.
You're welcome.
Oh. I like the remodel.
Where have you been?
In and out of prison.
Mmm.
Good to hear.
No visible tattoos.
- I missed you.
- Hmm.
- What's this?
- Oh. it's nothing.
That's a nice round number.
Somehow I don't think you'll be having
any more credit card problems. will you?
You know. um.
you still owe me a dinner.
How could I ever forget?
I missed you.
I think I still
remember my way around.
Why don't you meet me
in a few minutes?
How quaint.
Hmm.
Jason?
Where'd you go?
[ Exhales ]
Shall I keep the limo running.
Mr. Stevens?
Maybe not.
Ah. Mr. Hamilton. Miss Hastings.
I'm so happy you came.
Jason. what's going on?
Have a seat.
Please. I insist.
Thank you all for joining me today.
May I direct your attention to-
[ All Murmuring ]
It's called Emily's Home.
It's for a dozen or more families
experiencing extraordinary health challenges.
Now. over here
will be the homes.
They're part of the same complex.
yet individual dwellings.
Families are gonna be able to live together
while they face their problems.
Now. obviously. there's
gonna be plenty of parking.
Over here is gonna be a state-of-the-art
employment center...
catering to parents. single or married.
who need to earn some sort of income...
while their child
undergoes treatment.
Now. at this
state-of-the-art hospital-
Excuse me.
What's missing?
Oh. yeah.
A church...
a worship center.
How much is this
gonna cost?
If you look at the prospectus
in front of you. page 5.
The total initial outlay
will be $350 million.
Your part will be to underwrite the financing
and a loan guarantee of 250 million.
I'm gonna be putting up the first
100 million of my own money.
Mr. Stevens. this is all well and fine. We did
business with your grandfather for many years.
Excuse me. I'm sorry for interrupting.
but I didn't phrase this as a question.
You are gonna do this. You made this much
off my grandfather in a typical year.
- [ Cell Phone Rings ]
- And. gentlemen. this project has...
- the full resources of the
Hamilton law firm backing it.
- Yes? Oh. I-
Pro bono. as I'm sure
you will be too.
Wrap up the details for me.
will you. Hamilton?
- My pleasure.
- Thank you all. I appreciate it.
[ All Murmuring ]
Hey. Whoa.
Come on. come on.
come on. come on!
[ Alexia Crying ]
[ Crying Continues ]
[ Sniffles ]
She wanted me to be there.
It was so important to her.
Jason. Alexia.
as mayor of Charlotte...
it is my extreme honor
and privilege to preside over...
the ground breaking
for Emily's Home.
But it is also a sad day...
in that the namesake and the inspiration
for this incredible project...
is not here with us today.
But her spirit
will always be with us all.
Jason. Alexia.
[ Indistinct ]
[ Mayor]
Thank you very much.
- [ Chattering ]
- Thanks.
I am so proud of the man
you've become.
Thanks in great part to you.
Meet me at my office as soon
as possible. will you?
- I have one more matter I need to discuss.
- Of course.
We understand you went
outside the boundaries of our instructions...
with one of those gifts.
What?
Don't ''what'' me.
You know what I'm talking about.
- Miss Hastings. will you. uh.
dismiss everyone. please?
- Oh. Yes. sir.
[ Door Closes ]
[ Man ]
Over the course of several days...
this investigator personally witnessed
and recorded the subject...
as he committed various misdemeanor
infractions for which he was never cited.
Nevertheless. illegal
activities did occur.
Panhandling.
bordering on assault...
stealing private property.
resale of stolen items...
street vending
without a permit...
jaywalking.
It is the opinion of this investigator
that the subject is a reprobate...
and not capable of completing
the 12 gifts laid out in Red Stevens's will.
[ Hamilton ]
That's enough. Miss Hastings.
[ Hastings ]
My pleasure. Mr. Hamilton.
Jason. if you made it this far.
he had one final message.
- [ Red ] Jason.
- Yeah?
You gave away the $100 million?
All of it?
- Yeah. so what?
- Well. if you're standing here now...
it means that not only have you succeeded
in receiving all of my gifts...
but have done so beyond
the boundaries that I have set.
I guess that means
that I have succeeded as well.
What I could not
accomplish in life...
I have done in death.
As long as you are
still alive. I will be too.
I love you. Son.
I love you too.
Good-bye. Jason.
''As executor of the estate
of Red Stevens...
''I hereby execute
and otherwise assign...
''complete and controlling
interest to Jason Stevens...
''the balance of Red's estate...
''including all holdings.
investment portfolio...
''and offshore interests...
totaling in excess
of two billion dollars. ''
Depending on OPEC prices
and foreign currency fluctuations. of course.
[ Red's Voice ]
I need a lawyer for a few business ideas I have...
a few still
in the dream stage.
[ Hamilton's Voice ]
When would you like to meet?
[ Red's Voice ]
Meet? Hell.you're hired.
[ Hamilton's Voice ]
Sir. are you sure you wouldn't like to meet first?
[ Red's Voice ] You were at the top
of your law class. were you not?
- [ Hamilton's Voice ] Yes. sir.
- [ Red's Voice ] Then you're my lawyer.
Now let's get on with it.
We got a world to conquer.
Do you think I'm old.
Miss Hastings?
Mm-mmm.
Well. I think it's about time I retire
from this law firm.
Whatever will you do.
Mr. Hamilton?
Go to work
with  Jason Stevens.
[ Chuckles ]
- Change the world.
- Mmm.
[ Footsteps Approaching ]
Hi.
Thank you.
So I want
to give you a gift-
a series of gifts
leading up to. well...
I wanna call it
''the ultimate gift.''
Now. you fail in any way.
it's over. You get nothing.
You know. you do any work
like you just did...
you can do anything.
Now. aren't you
forgettin' something?
- I don't think so. Shoot.
- The gift.
The gift of work.
- Wow.
- Congratulations.
The charge card company
declined the charge.
That's impossible. I don't have a credit limit.
Just run it through again.
It's always our practice to run it through again.
but they declined.
I need a friend.
You expect this friendship
to continue?
I plan on knowing  Jason
for the rest of my life.
Do- Do you truly
know how to learn?
Villagers wait for books.
You bring them new books.
They are waiting for you
to pick up old books.
Exchange. Library.
¿S¡?
[ Exhales ]
Well. you don't begin to live
until you've lost everything.
Wait. Wait.
That's an $8.000 paint job!
[ Groans ]
Heck. I've lost everything
three or four times.
It's the perfect
place to start.
And Emily- she's-
What's gonna
happen to my mom?
I really don't hate her.
you know.
[ Crying ]
[ Sniffles ]
[ All Laughing ]
- Salud.
Salud.
[ Laughing ]
Jason. you need to be free.
free to dream.
You need to come up
with a dream. then act on it.
And honestly. I don't know
if I have my own dream.
But I do know I can help others
fulfill theirs.
Uh. I do have to
give away some money.
You're getting
less mysterious by the minute.
She owes $1.600
in back rent.
Pay it.
You're a hundred
dollars short.
Tell Hamilton I'm good for it.
Just pay that bill.
So. apparently...
someone came by
and covered my back rent.
Was it you?
Thank you.
What would
your dream be?
My dream?
My dream was
a perfect day.
And I'm just
finishing it.
- I love you. Son.
- I love you too.
Good-bye. Jason.